Have you ever been scammed?
Ever been duped or tricked?
You need to get the text on your phone from the DMB that says, hey, you have an unpaid ticket.
And if you don't pay within 24 hours, they're going to suspend your license and it's going to rent your credit score.
So quickly, quickly click on this link and pay this fine.
The DMB doesn't send you text by the way.
So if you click on that link, $500 disappears out of your bank account.
And you realize, oh man.
It looks so official.
It looks so real.
And that's one thing of $50, $100, $500.
But what if it happens to your grandmother and she gives a password and now all of her life savings is gone?
That's devastating that trap.
What if it's not just money?
What if you meet someone and they pretend to be a certain kind of way?
And then after you get into a relationship with them, you realize they were
They were pretending to be one person publicly and a different person privately, and this is devastating.
When we fall for a counterfeit, when we fall for something that looks really good but isn't, it can be devastating, especially spiritually.
If we believe in a counterfeit gospel in a false doctrine about who God is and what he teaches, well, the results can be devastating in every way.
Who am I and who is God and how do I live and all these things?
And so this study today is about the real thing.
You see first Timothy, this letter from Paul to Timothy, a third of the entire letter deals with false doctrines and conspiracy theories and myths and genealogies and all the things that are counterfeit all around.
Now what makes a counterfeit good is that it is very close to the original.
In fact, the closer it is to the original,
the more effective it is.
If it's 99.5% true and 0.5% false, it's gonna get you every time.
And if I asked you this question, how many of you would drink a pure glass of water, 99.5% pure with just a little bit of cyanide in it?
You'd be like, no, that would kill me.
Yeah, it would kill you, but it's so close to the truth.
And where do counterfeits come from?
Hmm.
Well, Jesus said that there's an enemy
who comes to steal and kill and destroy.
Jesus, I have come to give you life.
And some people are like, why am I not experiencing this abundant life that Jesus promises?
Part of it's because there is an enemy who's trying to distract you and put counterfeits in front of you.
And if you follow down that trail, you end up over here going, I don't know if this Christianity thing is even working.
Jesus said there are wolves that come in church in sheep's clothing.
They pretend to be a person who is
holy and righteous and cares about you.
And sometimes they can manipulate you.
And Paul is going to offer the same warning to the Ephesian elders.
Remember this letter to Timothy is sent to a city called Ephesus where Timothy is this young pastor.
Remember Timothy didn't have a father involved in his life.
So Paul mentors him for 15 years and then sends him to Ephesus to be the pastor.
And Timothy is young.
Timothy's a little bit timid, doesn't know how to handle all these things.
And so Paul's gonna say, no, Timothy, I need you to know that you have to be a leader.
You have to take charge because, well, wolves are gonna come into this congregation.
And right after Paul planted this church, he offered this warning to the Ephesian elders in Acts chapter 20.
He would say this, I know that after I leave, savage wolves will come in among you and will not spare the flock.
Even from your own number, men will arise and distort the truth and draw away disciples after them.
So be on your guard.
Remember that for three years I never stopped warning each of you night and day with tears.
You feel the passion of the apostle Paul.
He loves these men, he loves this church, he loves these people.
I know what's gonna happen when I leave.
People are gonna creep in.
Even among you, even some of the elders themselves in that circle and you're gonna get
off a little bit, one degree, and you're gonna get people to follow, you're gonna distort the truth, maybe for your own sense of pride, or to be admired, or to be the one who leads the group, and you're really a wolf in sheep's clothing.
Listen again, the power of a counterfeit, the power of deception, comes in its closeness to the real thing.
Satan cannot create like God can, but he can take what God
creates and counterfeit it and he comes as an angel of light.
So if you think Satan's going to come to you like in a little red suit with a pitchfork, no one's going to fall for that.
Now he's going to come in a way that looks very attractive to lead you away from the real thing.
And so Paul gives these instructions to Timothy in verse six.
He says, some have departed from these and have turned to meaningless talk.
They want to be teachers of the law, but they do not know what they're talking about or what they so confidently affirm.
Now, we know the law is good if one uses it properly.
And we also know that the law is not made for the righteous, but for the law breakers and the rebels, the ungodly, the sinful, the unholy, the irreligious.
For those who kill their fathers or mothers, for murderers, for the sexually immoral, for those practicing homosexuality, for slave traders,
and liars and perjurers, and for whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine that conforms to the gospel concerning the glory of the blessed God, which he entrusted to me.
Paul says, hey Timothy, I want to warn you, there are people who are trying to lead the people of God astray, they're within the congregation, there are false doctrines, there are myths, there are genealogies, and they lead to meaningless talk, they lead to speculation, and he said there's people among you who profess to be experts in the law,
but they have no idea what they're talking about.
They have a continuous state of being ignorant of the law.
They think that the law is for one purpose, to make themselves feel righteous, to make themselves feel like they check off this legal list, and that makes them better than other people, but that's not what the law is for.
Have you ever heard someone be really confident about something, but then when you asked them a follow-up question, they had no idea what they were talking about?
This is the age of chat GPT.
You can ask a question, you get a two-sentence summary, but if someone asks you a follow-up question, you're like, yeah, I have no idea.
I just spit out the information that it was given to me.
And this is the difference between knowledge and understanding.
We live in a world filled with knowledge.
You can learn so many facts about so many things, but understanding means you've wrestled with it.
And you can understand it and explain it, and wisdom says you can live by it.
And Paul says, these people are throwing the law around like they know what they're talking about.
They have no idea what they're talking about.
And so often we'll get this message on social media.
We'll listen to this little 30 second thing.
And it's like, oh, you know, Bible, the Bible can't be trusted because the Bible has been translated so many times by so many people.
It's not even the same as what it used to be.
And people sort of months ago, yeah, that's right.
Like why would we believe the Bible?
but like 10 minutes of research, of honest research, and you could find the answer to that question if you were serious.
You see, when I used to hear that, I was like what you call a lazy skeptic.
I'm like, yeah, that's right, you can't trust the Bible.
But you know, there's like 25,000 copies of the New Testament manuscripts and museums all over the world.
And if you look at that, you look at the Bible we have, it's 99.5% the same thing.
So if you just do a little research, you'll find out that what people say and confidently affirm is true
Well, do the research for yourself.
Know why you believe what you believe, and don't just believe all the people who speak so confidently that don't know what they're talking about, right?
Don't be a lazy skeptic.
So Paul uses this example, he says, these people in Ephesus are using the law, like the Old Testament law, like it's not meant to be used.
You see the law, the Ten Commandments, is teaching people how to restrain the evil that's within them.
He starts out by saying there's people here who are ungodly, lawbreakers, rebellious, unholy, irreligious, they're sinners.
These are the first four commandments of the Old Testament, of the 10 commandments.
People who reject God as holy, who put other gods before him, who use his name in vain.
And then he goes off this list, and this list is really commandments six through 10.
You look at actually five through 10.
The fifth commandment, honor your parents.
He says there's some people who kill their parents.
Sixth commandment, do not kill, there are murderers.
The seventh commandment, do not commit adultery.
There are people who live sexually immoral.
That word, porneia, over sexualized in their mind.
Homosexuality, life of sexual expression outside of a marriage between a man and a woman for life, God's design.
The eighth commandment, do not steal.
People who take, kidnap and trade human beings like they're commodities, slave trading.
Perjurers, liars, the ninth commandment, do not lie.
Paul's going down.
Every one of the 10 commandments in the sustain, listen, the commandments remind us that none of us can be righteous before God, that all of us break commandments and that we don't use these 10 commandments to go, look at me.
I've done this way better than you and I can now look down on you.
No.
If you're honest with yourself and honest with the 10 commandments, you will raise your hand and say, I am guilty as charged.
I'm a sinner.
I need to save your God.
Help.
And that's why Paul says of the Old Testament in the book of Galatians.
The law was our guardian until Christ came that we might be justified by faith.
No one's gonna be justified by the law.
You're only justified by the death of Jesus.
He died in your place for your sins to pay your debt.
And you can just say thank you Jesus for coming into my life.
That is the real thing.
And Paul says these people have no idea.
what they're talking about.
So he uses this phrase in verse 10, sound doctrine, that sound doctrine, what you believe, practice, and that it aligns with the glorious gospel of Christ.
And so he said, that gospel has been entrusted to me.
And Timothy, I now entrusted to you.
And it's your job to teach it to this church.
And so if you feel shy, if you feel intimidated,
I'm gonna tell you command these men not to teach this way, take charge of this church and teach sound doctrine.
And then in verse 12, Paul shares his story.
He says, I thank Christ, Jesus our Lord, who has given me strength that he considered me trustworthy, appointing me to a service, even though I was a blasphemer and a persecutor and a violent man.
I was shown mercy because I acted in ignorance and unbelief.
The grace of our Lord was poured out on me abundantly along with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus.
Now here is a trustworthy saying that deserves full acceptance.
Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I am the worst.
But for that very reason I was shown mercy so that in me the worst of sinners Christ Jesus might display his immense patience as an example for those who would believe in him and receive
eternal life.
And now to the King, eternal, immortal, invisible, the only God.
Be honor and glory forever and ever, amen.
Right?
You're spontaneously clapping.
And you know why?
Because it is such good news.
I mean, Paul's writing a letter, talking about a story, and he just can't help but say, and this is to the praise of the King who's eternal and immortal and all wise and his
glory in my life is manifested.
Paul can't help it.
This is the beautiful expression of knowing that he was so lost.
I mean, Paul's saying, I was so off.
I was so tweaked in my brain.
I was a blasphemer.
I slandered God.
I was a violent person, a murderer.
I mean, he was so off that he took the law and he twisted it.
He twisted it.
The law that was meant
to cause us to love God and love other people with all of our heart.
And he twisted it to say those people who are not like me.
Well, if God's on my side and they're my enemies, they're God's enemies too.
So I can do whatever I want to them and justify it, not feel a bit bad about it.
He had no shame and no guilt in arresting innocent people and separating families and presiding over their murders and their executions.
And he didn't feel a bit
Sad about it, he felt justified about it, and that's how tweaked he was.
He said, I was the worst human being in the world.
Now think about this.
From the apostle Paul, the greatest Christian thinker and writer and evangelist, one of the founders of the New Testament church of Jesus says, I was the worst person in the world.
But then God poured His grace into my life.
God poured.
faith and love into my life.
And he used me as an example so that if anyone ever said, oh, God could never save me.
And then they look at me, they're like, well, if God could save him, then God could certainly save me.
Has God poured His grace into your life?
Has God been patient with you?
And you start to think about, and that's an example for all the people around you.
You see, I know,
On a Sunday when the church gathers like this, there's a group of people that are new to Christianity, new to the Bible, new to church, and you might be thinking like, I didn't know any of the songs.
I didn't know where to turn in the Bible.
I don't even understand what that guy up there read.
I don't know if I fit in.
I don't know if like the right type of holy person that God would accept.
Listen, if you knew what the people around you did, you would hold your wallet tight.
Just listen.
We are a group of sinners saved by the grace of God.
It's not about us.
It's about him.
And that's what the church has always, always been.
Paul used himself as an example.
If Jesus could save me, he could save anyone.
He demonstrated his love in my life.
And so he was like, Timothy, that's worth fighting for.
In verse 18, he says, Timothy, my son, I'm giving you this command and keeping with the prophecies once made about you.
So that by recalling them, he may fight the battle well, holding on to faith and a good conscience, which some have rejected and so suffered shipwreck with regard to their faith.
Among them, Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan to be taught not to blaspheme.
And Paul calls them out.
He's like, these two guys that are in the church that are leaders, Hymenas and Alexander, they have shipwrecked their faith.
They've given up a good conscience and a sincere faith and a pure heart.
And they have lost their own way and they're leading other people away.
And so Timothy, it's time for you to speak and act and be decisive.
And Timothy, by the way, I remember the prophecy about your life.
He'll say later on, I remember when we laid hands on you, I remember who God created you to be.
So don't be timid, be strong, fight for sound doctrine and fight for sincere faith.
Now when Paul says he handed these two men over to Satan, what does that mean?
It's simply a way to say he's kicking them out of the church.
They're practicing church discipline.
The same phrase is used in 1 Corinthians as well to talk about people who are like, I can be in this church and I can say and do whatever I want.
And Paul's like, no, you can't actually.
And so we're gonna ask you to leave until you're able to repent and come back to the real thing because you have embraced a counterfeit.
Now, what have these two leaders embraced?
We don't know if it was a Jewish legalism or a Gnosticism, but it was definitely a counterfeit gospel because Paul says they have left the conscience, the good conscience and sincere faith of the gospel.
And so he calls Timothy, hold fast and command these men.
The best way to interpret the Bible is the Bible.
And we know the letters of 1st and 2nd Timothy were written to Timothy while he was in this church in Ephesus.
And so if we look at the book of Ephesians written three years earlier, we get a little more insight into some of the doctrines and some of the issues that church was having.
And Paul would say in chapter four to the Ephesians, he would say that God gives the church pastors and teachers and evangelists and apostles and prophets so that the church can be built up so we can mature and grow so that, and then he says this,
we will no longer be infants, tossed back and forth by the waves and blown here and there by every wind of teaching and by the cunning and craftiness of people in their deceitful scheming.
Paul's saying the only way to help a church grow up is to teach them the word.
And if they learn the word, if they learn to use the word and look here first, they're not gonna be so easily duped, so easily tricked when something's trending over here.
Or some new ideology comes over here.
Someone comes up with a new thing over here.
Like, look at the next shiny thing.
We're all attracted to new, intriguing things.
That's the human brain.
And so Paul says, you know, every time the wind blows with a new doctrine, well, little babies turn their attention, but mature adults go, just because it glitters doesn't mean it's gold.
Just because it looks so good and sounds so good doesn't mean it's the real thing.
And so sound doctrine.
is important.
Now, when you hear the word doctrine, most people generally do this, sitting in a room, studying books, looking at Hebrew words and Greek words, no thank you.
Like doctrine doesn't really matter to me, I just wanna live my life and love Jesus.
All right, so I wanna tell you why doctrine is important in a church.
And I wanna do it by showing you a picture, but when I show you this picture, it's gonna be sort of jolting, so I'm gonna ask you, prepare your heart,
Buckle your seatbelt, because this picture may be very disorienting, but it's important.
Why is sound doctrine important?
Well, take a look at this picture.
1920, Portland, Oregon.
And if you look at it at first, you're like, okay, Jesus saves, good doctrine.
Oh, there's a pulpit there.
There's a Bible there.
There's a pastor there.
But this is not Christianity.
This is a counterfeit of Christianity.
Why is it a counterfeit?
Well, for the same reason Paul said, you see, if your Christianity makes you better than other people, if your Christianity makes you superior so you can look down to other people, if Christianity makes your enemies God's enemy and allows you to do humanize them and not even feel anything inside of you that's violating the law of love and the heart of the gospel, then you have lost your way.
And it's easy to look back a hundred years.
It's so easy to look back a hundred years ago and go, what was wrong with them?
But if we just look in the mirror today, it can be jolting to go, do we see some of these things happening?
You're right in our world right now where we, our tribe says to say this or think this and we listen to whatever that wind of doctrine is.
And we don't look first here to the gospel that says,
love your neighbor as yourself and, and love your enemies.
Right?
So, and it's easy to say I love my neighbor as myself.
It's a little harder to say I love my enemies, but we want to make the real thing the real thing.
The gospel says there is no one beyond the reach of Jesus.
There's no one beyond his love.
So we're gonna love fiercely.
We're gonna look to God's word.
We're not gonna get caught up in all the doctrines that blow and all the things people say.
In fact, sometimes we can think that the world of conspiracy theories is like a new thing with the onset of the internet, but conspiracy theories were around thousands of years ago.
In fact, I wanna read you
about some conspiracy theories that happened 700 years before Jesus.
Here's what the prophet Isaiah says about the conspiracy theories that are happening in Jerusalem in 700 BC.
This is what the Lord says to me with his strong hand upon me, warning me not to follow the way of this people.
Do not call conspiracy, everything this people calls a conspiracy.
And do not fear what they fear and do not dread it.
The Lord Almighty is the one you are to regard as holy.
He is the one you are to fear.
He is the one you are to dread.
Now just let that sit for a second because every week there's a new one.
And if we as the people of God feed in, buy in,
And now we're posting on social media, I heard, I think, what if, and we start talking to our people about that, then we're gonna be the source of speculation and controversy that draw people away from God and not toward the gospel, and we'll get caught up in all these little counterfeits that happen.
And maybe 90%, 95% of what you're saying is true, but that 5%, that's gonna kill you.
It's gonna shipwreck somebody's faith, so we wanna be cautious and thoughtful.
The worst thing in the world is not to be on the wrong side of history.
The worst thing in the world is to be on the wrong side of God, right?
And so we wanna be the type of people who say, I wanna have the purity of the gospel be in my heart and demonstrated in my life.
I cannot separate my Christian faith from Christ's likeness.
That is one of the modern heresies.
I can be a Christian, but I don't have to be Christ-like.
That's an oxymoron.
That's a counterfeit gospel.
We live and follow Jesus Christ in the way that he became
flesh, the way he served, the way he lifted up the father.
And so we want to be those people.
Now, this is a 3,000 or 2,000 year old letter.
And so sometimes we can look at this and go, okay, Hymenas and Alexander, they're teaching this counterfeit gospel.
We don't know what it is, but it's leading people astray.
It's got controversy.
It's got conspiracy.
It's got some Jewish legalism.
It's got mysticism in it.
We don't know exactly what it is, but we know their faith is shipwrecked.
and they're drawing people away.
So this wasn't written to us, but it was written for us.
So our question is, so 2,000 years after this letter's written, how do we operate our church here at Calvary?
This letter was written not just as a spiritual father, disciple and a spiritual son.
It was written for how the church should conduct itself.
And so we see all these different opportunities to learn.
And so here's one of the questions.
How do we do it here at Calvary?
And so I'm gonna just show you, what does it mean to be a leader here?
How do we make decisions?
How do we decide what sound doctrine is?
And so if you get past the process of being part of the crowd and go through our connect experience and become a volunteer, at some point someone's gonna put a leadership covenant in front of you.
And it's gonna have these essential doctrines.
This is what we believe, these distinctive doctrines.
Here's how we practice this.
And then there's gonna be a lifestyle covenant.
Here's how we choose to live, including church discipline.
If I get off and start saying crazy stuff,
then what's gonna happen to me?
And so I want you to think about this in concentric circles.
Essential doctrines are what it means to be saved.
This is the doctrine that's the most important.
And so we're gonna guard that, we're gonna fight for that.
And it's part of our core beliefs, our core doctrine, our distinctive doctrines and our lifestyle practices is how that is lived out here at Calvary.
And then the outering us all the disputable matters.
I mean, do you know Christians have a lot of opinions?
On a lot of things.
Well, if you're a real Christian, you won't eat meat or only eat vegetables or celebrate on Saturday or on Sunday or read this version of the Bible or only sing this type of songs or do these kinds of things.
You'll vote this way, act this way, believe these things, do these things.
And you know, there's a lot of things that people make dogmatic claims about that the Bible doesn't mention at all.
And so we're not going to fight about those things.
We're not going to mortgage our credibility by going all in on one or the other.
We're going to go all in on the gospel.
all in the gospel of Jesus Christ and all in that everyone's invited and that all are welcome.
And we're gonna let this other thing, so I just, you know, people say, hey, what about this?
I'm like, maybe.
It's just a great answer.
Maybe.
And so we wanna be clear about the thing that we're gonna go all in on.
So I'm gonna give you just three here at Calvary.
And we see all these in the first 10 to the one.
Here's the first one.
We embrace the power of the gospel.
The law can't save us.
Our good works can't save us.
Our spirituality can't save us.
Only Jesus can save us, right?
And he does not need any help.
He does not need any gimmicks.
He does not need any political party.
He doesn't need any amount of money.
He doesn't need any particular nation.
He can do what he wants to do because he is king and he is God and he is Lord and he is creator.
He is Alpha.
He is Omega.
He can do it all in his own.
And here's how Paul would say it.
I am not ashamed of
the gospel because it is the power of God that brings salvation to everyone who believes, first the Jew and then to the Gentile.
The gospel, the good news that no matter how far you wander away from God, you can be forgiven and saved and redeemed and made whole.
And we're gonna lift that truth up every time we gather and every time we talk, everyone is invited.
But if we take that and we add to it,
Yes, it's Jesus plus.
Back in the day it was Jesus plus.
You need to get circumcised.
You can't do it with Gentiles.
You need to celebrate on this day of the week or the Gnosticism idea that there's a secret knowledge you can have.
And if you go deep with God, you're gonna get a special revelation that no one else has.
And once you have that, you're part of the spiritual elite.
And what you do with your body doesn't matter, because it's about your soul and spirit.
That's called a false doctrine.
Today, universalism, every single road leads to God.
Buddha, Krishna, you know, Muhammad, it doesn't really matter.
It all ends the same place.
Does it really?
That's not what the Bible teaches.
That's not what Jesus said.
Or healing through psychology.
I don't need to repent.
I just need to go to therapy and come to some cathartic closure in my life.
And I can experience this beautiful peace without repentance.
No, that's not what the Bible teaches.
Expressive individualism.
I know this is me.
I can't wait to tell the world and have them embrace me or these trends that we get into.
We start to follow these little offshoots of Christianity.
Like, you know, the latest thing is all, all things that happen with Bethel and this hyper charismatic thing with all this stuff that looks the way on the outside, but on the inside, you see all this hypocrisy and the counterfeits and the certain that emerged to the surface.
And you're like, you know, if you follow a certain vein of Christianity, a certain second you go all the way down here and then you realize, oh, that's a fraud.
Sometimes you can do this.
Well, the whole thing's a fraud.
And your faith gets shipwrecked because you followed that person and you thought that person had this special knowledge no one else had.
And listen, that special knowledge was available to everyone in the Bible.
And so be careful who you follow and how you put your faith and trust in those trends because they can lead you astray.
Listen, Jesus said the gospel is simple enough for a child to understand it.
And so let's have childlike faith.
Let's ask good questions.
Let's know why we believe what we believe.
And let's realize that everything that glitters is not gold.
Now, if you have questions, you're like, man, Doug, you brought up a lot of different issues.
Well, the beautiful thing about 1st and 2nd Timothy is it's a back and forth between Paul and Timothy about how to run the church, how to pick leaders, how to deal with false doctrines.
And so we figured why don't we do that in real time here at Calvary.
So in two weeks on February 21st to Saturday night, we're going to answer all your questions or as many as you give.
So I'm going to put a QR code in the screen if you're like,
How does the church deal with this, whatever this is?
What does the church believe about this, whatever this is?
We're gonna gather all those questions, and then we're gonna gather on Saturday night, and we're gonna answer as many of those questions as possible, because I don't want you to sit here as a church and go, why don't they ever talk about this, or this, or this, or this?
Well, I don't know what this is, because I got 100 questions a week, so ask me the questions that are important to you, and we'll engage in those simple dialogues.
And so here at Calvary, we see this reflected in the Bible, we embrace the power of
the gospel.
Now, any sports center fans here?
Not very many.
Scott Van Pelt, the best thing I saw today.
All right, so he has this thing, the best thing I saw today.
And so I want to give you my version of that.
The best thing I saw this week, the best one minute of my week, something I saw was Jelly Roll's speech at the Grammys.
Anybody?
Now you're like,
Who is jelly roll?
Yeah, if you watch it, you'll see.
So jelly roll, here's what he says in one minute.
I would be dead or in jail if it wasn't for Jesus.
There was a time in my life that I was broken, dark days.
I was a horrible human.
All I had was my Bible and a radio and a six by eight foot cell.
And I believe those two things had the power to change my life.
I want to tell you, Jesus is for everybody.
Jesus is not owned by one political party.
Jesus is not owned by a music label.
Jesus is Jesus.
And anybody can have a relationship with him.
Drop the mic.
I was like, I mean,
In my wildest imaginations, I would not say the theologian jelly roll said.
But in the early churches, wildest imaginations, they wouldn't say the killer of Christians is now the theologian of the Christian faith, but Jesus loves to take the small things, the despised things, the weak things, and promote them to the things that he uses in his life.
And so the apostle Paul is way more controversial than Jelly Roll.
Well, let the truth speak into the culture.
We embrace the power of the gospel.
And in that small speech, Jelly Roll also did something Paul did in this first letter of Timothy that we embrace our inadequacies, our own brokenness.
You see, real gospel teachers and pastors
Don't point you to their strength and their knowledge and their wisdom and their perfection to say, be like me.
They point to Jesus.
Don't look at me.
Look at him.
False teachers say, look at me.
Come to me.
I'll give you special insight.
And for $39.99, you can buy my book and you can get my videos.
You can come and follow the path that no one else can give you except me.
And now it becomes a little cult following.
This is what's happening in this church.
Hymenaeus and Alexander drawing people away, making about them, shipwrecking their faith.
And so Paul's saying to Timothy, like, I'm gonna tell you my story.
I'm gonna be transparent about it.
I was a murderer.
I was a violent.
I was the worst human being.
And Jesus saved me.
It's not about me.
It's about him.
And so the question is, what do we do with our inadequacies, with our weakness?
So this is gonna be a little moment where you're gonna pull out a mirror and look at yourself in the mirror.
I call this like a scale of acceptance.
A scale of acceptance of your weaknesses, your brokenness.
You're inadequacies.
And so at the bottom of that is rejection.
I'm gonna reject, I'm gonna refuse to admit that I am weak, that I have issues, that I have problems, that I have sin, that I have brokenness.
And that's called, that's called denial.
And denial is not a river in Egypt, just so you know.
It's fueled by insecurity and manifest by overcompensation.
I wanna project strength, I wanna project knowledge.
I can't let anyone know what's really inside of me.
So I have to hide behind this mass that I have it all together.
Praise the Lord by big Bible.
I know a Bible verse.
I know the songs.
I know how to do the act.
And then maybe we get to the point where we don't reject that we have weaknesses in a broken as we get to the point where we just resisted.
We're in emotional opposition because we're trapped by this desire to be seen and respected and admired by people.
Like I want to appear smarter than I am.
I want to appear more charming than I am, more insightful than I am, more funny than I am.
This human desire to be loved, accepted, admired, it's in all of us.
And so sometimes we can just resist and we do this impression management.
We want to make sure people think the right things about us.
And then maybe we get to the point where we tolerate our weaknesses.
Okay.
All right.
I'm not all I want to be.
And then maybe we get to the point where we accept our weaknesses.
We're actually positively inclined, hey, these weaknesses, maybe God could use these weaknesses to help other people.
Maybe he could use his weaknesses to draw me close to him.
And then we might even get to the point where we can embrace or celebrate our weaknesses.
Now, what kind of crazy person celebrates weakness?
Well, the apostle Paul is one of them.
He's constantly celebrating.
his weakness, his brokenness, his sin, how far away he was from God.
And not just in his salvation story, which he shares over and over and over and over, but even in a moment where he prays for God to remove a thorn from his flesh.
And God says, no, we read about this last weekend, but his response is noteworthy.
He says, Jesus, take away this thorn.
We don't know exactly what it was.
Take this issue out of my life.
It's too painful.
It's too difficult.
And Jesus says, no.
And then Jesus says to him this,
My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.
Therefore I will boast all more gladly about my weakness so that Christ's power may rest on me, Paul says.
And that's why for Christ's sake I delight in weaknesses, in insults, in hardship, in persecution, in difficulties.
For when I am weak, then I am strong.
Whoa, right?
This is counter-intuitive.
The world says, be strong, put on a smile, fake it till you make it, do your thing.
Let people see the strength of you.
And Paul's like, no, no, that's not where it is.
You don't connect with God based on your personal adequacy.
You don't connect with God because you're strong.
You connect with God because you're weak, because you're broken.
And you say, God, help me.
That's when he comes.
That's when the real power happens.
And so let's be people who have great confidence in who Jesus is and very little confidence in who we are.
And this is embracing the power of the gospel and embracing our own inadequacies and false teachers don't know how to do that.
They keep pointing it back to themselves.
So where is there an area of weakness, inadequacy, broken as pain in your life?
Be curious, not just to accept it, but to embrace it, to celebrate it.
to make it part of your story because the greatest ministry of your life may be in that precise place.
The place of pain or weakness that you wish never happened or the thing you would change about yourself may be the very place where God uses you in ways that are beyond what you can imagine.
He did it with Paul.
He's doing it with Timothy, this timid young man, and he can do it with you.
It's what the gospel is about.
So I'm gonna give you
I'm going to give you three sentences about the power of the gospel that embrace the power of the gospel in our inadequacy.
Here's the first.
I'm going to say it, then I want you to say it.
I'm a complete mess.
Some of you guys are so reluctant to say that.
Okay.
Before you say it again, if a video camera could follow you around, see all your actions, read your mind, and it was displayed for everyone to see.
Would you say you're a mess?
I'm a complete mess.
And yet my future looks incredibly bright.
And everyone can get on this.
That's the gospel.
We're a mess.
Jesus came to die in our place.
Our future looks incredibly bright as we receive the gospel.
And everyone is invited into this.
This is the power of the gospel.
And so much to think about personal inadequacy for a moment.
personal inadequacy has two words in the English language associated with it.
But I.
So this year I was going to get in shape, but I love to sleep.
So I'm not in shape.
This year I was going to eat healthy, but I love chocolate ice cream too much.
This year I was gonna get out of debt and get my finances in order, but I just, I love to shop on Amazon.
This year I was gonna join a group, I was gonna do that connect thing, but I decided I'm an introvert.
You see all these moments of personal inactivity.
Think about Bible characters.
Abraham says to God, you tell me I'm gonna have a baby, but I am too old.
I'm too old to have a baby.
Moses, I'm gonna speak for you, but I can't speak.
Gideon, you're gonna be the leader, but I come from a family that's a nothing family.
Peter, throw my nets in this, but I've fished all night.
There's no fish there.
And all these moments, you come to an end of yourself.
So I wanna say this, I don't want you to misunderstand it.
God is bigger than your butt.
Okay, one tea, one tea.
And when you embrace not just the butt eye, that's not gonna help me, but these two words.
This is the hinge of the door.
It's butt, God.
When you see these two words together, it's an insight into the gospel.
It's the power of hope.
Listen, just a few of these.
30, 40 times in the Bible, we see this.
Jacob says that my father-in-law has cheated me and changed my wages 10 times, but God did not permit him to harm me.
Joseph, to his brothers, you intended to harm me, but
God intended it for good.
David saw search for me day after day, but God did not give me into his hand.
Asaph, my flesh and my heart may fail, but God, he is the strength of my heart.
Jonah, I sank down to the bottom of the water, but God brought me back to life from the pit.
Jesus, with man, things are impossible, but with God, nothing is impossible.
Church, think about the power of those two words.
But God, but God.
Now, my favorite, favorite rendering of those two words, but God comes to the letter to the Ephesians.
And again, same church that Paul's writing to Timothy.
Here is our spiritual condition before God.
Once you were dead because of your disobedience and your many sins.
You used to live in sin just like the rest of the world obeying the devil
the commander of the powers in the unseen world, he is the spirit at work in the hearts of those who refuse to obey God.
And all of us used to live that way, following the passionate desires and inclinations of our sinful nature.
By our very nature, we were subject to God's anger, just like everyone else.
Sinful, trapped,
following all the deceptions of the world.
An enemy of God, lost, stuck, without hope.
That was the Ephesians.
That is us.
And then come the two gospel words that bring us hope.
But God is so rich in mercy.
And he loved us so much.
that even though we were dead because of our sins, he gave us life when he raised Christ from the dead.
It is only by grace that you have been saved.
That is the real thing.
That is not a counterfeit and everyone is invited.
And so we see in the last part of this letter that this leads Paul to praise.
So we practice that here.
We respond to the gospel
with worship to the king who is eternal, immortal, invisible.
He is the only wise God.
We worship, we praise, we sing because of what he's done, not because of what we can do.
And the gathering of God's people is so important.
Can you praise God on your own?
Yes, can you pray in the morning?
Thank you for your mercy that's new every morning?
Yes, but there's something special about when people of God gather together.
Because when we sing the person on our right, the person on our left, the person in front of us, the person behind us, they're singing their story.
This is a room full of stories, a room full of miracles.
And sometimes when we struggle with belief, with faith, with hope, it's the gathering together of God's people that reignites our faith, it reignites our hope.
Maybe in worship day you saw someone raise their hand in worship or someone crying in worship or someone bow down in worship and you're like, I remember when I was that close.
Or I've never been that close, but I want to.
There's something that she has, something that he has that I want for me.
It's that gathering that suspends the disbelief in us.
It's the gathering of God's people.
As we listen to people respond, if Jesus did that for him and for her, then what could he do for me?
And so I just want to remind you, we need each other in this process.
That's why God has...
Command his people, do not forsake the gathering of yourselves together because we can provoke each other to love and good works.
We can reorient ourselves against all the false doctrines and ideologies and all the things that people are saying in the world and we can reorient to, no, I want to love God and love his people.
And sometimes we don't even know how bad we need this.
This week I got a text from a friend.
It was a very specific word for me.
And I can tell you, it brought me life.
It brought me courage.
I am not,
alone and God's at work in him and me and us together.
And so we're gonna practice that.
I'm gonna ask you just for a moment to close your eyes and I want you to think just for a moment, what has Jesus done for you?
What has Jesus done in your life?
to scroll through your life.
How has he poured his mercy out on you?
How has he showed his immense patience with you?
He is the God eternal.
Before you were ever born, he was God.
He's been God for a long time.
And he sees you and he knows you and he loves you and his plan for you is good.
He's ordered your days.
And he's immortal.
He will not be defeated.
He will not die.
And if we're with him, we experience victory.
No one or nothing can snatch us out of his hand.
And he is invisible.
Peter says, even though you haven't seen him, you love him.
Your hearts are filled with inexpressible joy.
And without faith, it's impossible to please him.
So in this moment, he's seeking real worshipers who worship him in spirit and in truth.
And so we're just going to take a moment and thank him for being that King, giving him honor and glory that he deserves.
And then we're going to respond and worship.
Let's take that moment right now.
we celebrate our king, we celebrate our savior, we celebrate our God, we celebrate our friend.
And so in these final moments, I'm gonna ask you, if you've know King Jesus, if you've experienced his love and mercy, I'm gonna ask you to pray because right now we know there are people in this room who have not experienced the forgiveness of God, the grace of God, the outpouring of God and we wanna be praying that in this next few moments, their life, their eternal destination will be changed.
See the reality is,
Jesus came because we were stuck.
We were lost.
We were all those things separated from God.
We believe the wrong things about ourselves and about him.
And there's nothing we can do to undo that.
We can't do more good works to undo our bad works.
We can't go on a journey and discover God all on our own.
God revealed himself through his son Jesus.
He lived the life we could not live.
He died to pay our sin dead.
And one of the last things he said on the cross is, it is finished.
It's paid in full.
And whoever will come, whoever is willing to believe, whoever's willing to repent, they can experience the gospel forgiveness and grace.
But this is not a decision that I can make for you, that your mom or dad can make for you, that your friends can make for you.
It's only decision you can make.
And it's not just a life or death decision.
It's an eternal decision.
And so we want to invite you to respond to this invitation.
It's for everybody.
Whether you've just told a few white lies and done a few things that you think are kind of wrong, or whether you're a murderer, whether you've done some of the worst things in the world, the gospel is for everyone.
No one gets to heaven because they're good enough.
Even one sin separates us from God.
That's why Jesus came.
That's why he died.
This is the good news.
We are a mess, but when we experience the forgiveness of God, when we embrace our own inadequacy, our own brokenness, when we say help,
then we will experience that but God moment.
And so we've been praying for you, we've been praying for this moment, we're gonna play a song.
It's about how much we need God and as you hear the Christians around you singing this song, it's true for us, we know it's true for you.
Step into the aisle, walk this way, we'll stand here at this altar and I'm gonna leave you in a very simple prayer to God that goes like this, God, I open my heart and I invite you inside.
Forgive my sins, I wanna follow you.
I believe you came for me,
and died for me.
Now I want to live for you.
It's not about the perfect words.
It's about a heart that's ready.
You are not here by accident.
You are not hearing these words by accident.
If your heart is compelling you to come right now, step into the aisle and walk this way and we will celebrate with all of heaven as you come.
Come now.
I find my rest.
Without you, I fall apart.
You're the one that guides my heart.
Lord, I need you.
You're my one defense.
You're my righteousness.
Oh God, how I need you.
Oh Lord, I need you.
You're my one defense You're my righteousness Oh God, how I need You're my one defense You're my righteousness Oh God, how I need
Oh, we are so excited to celebrate this moment.
We're so honored to be part of this confession where you confess that you're a sinner, that you need a savior, where you experience this moment where your sins are forgiven, not just the guilt of your sin, but the shame and the blame.
And you're about to watch God take that.
mess and turn it into a message.
You're about to watch him do the work of new creation.
You're about to watch him pour his spirit into your life.
You're about to watch all of these things happen.
And this is just day one of following Jesus.
It gets better after that.
This is the great adventure of being part of the kingdom of God.
And we can't wait to watch what God is going to do in your life.
And so you're about to say the most powerful words will ever come out of your mouth.
By your confession, you are saved.
You confess with your mouth, Jesus is Lord.
He's king.
I want to follow him.
I give him my life.
And you believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead.
And so we're going to pray that prayer in just a moment.
But I just want to give like one more pause for all the procrastinators in the room.
I know you're out there.
I was one.
You hide in the crowd.
You're like, oh, maybe later.
I've got doubts.
I've got things to fix in my life.
I'm not ready to give up control.
All the things that go through your head, but you feel this like strong pull
And that pull is God saying, I love you.
And I wanna intervene in your life.
And if you just courageous enough to say help me.
Two of the most powerful words you can say, then he can begin to work in your life.
So if you know that you just step into the aisle right now, we're not gonna sing another song, but we want to celebrate this moment with you.
We don't want you to miss it.
Come on, wherever you are, step into the aisle.
I'm glad you're here.
So glad you're here.
There's still time.
Come on.
Welcome home.
I'm glad you're here.
For those who want to pray this online or on our VR campus, I'm going to give you some simple words.
I'm going to ask you to say them out loud to God.
He's listening right now.
Say this to God.
Lord God, I open my heart.
and I invite you inside.
Forgive my sin.
Today I repent.
Now, fill me with your spirit and I will walk with you all the days of my life.
I pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Amen, guys.
Congratulations.
Welcome to the family of God.
Hey, so before you go back to your seats, I'm gonna ask you for five more minutes.
You just made the most important decision of your life.
I'm gonna ask you just to follow me and the group over here to those open doors.
We're gonna give you a Bible.
Have a quick conversation with you.
You'll be back with your friends in just a moment.
Church, let's give them a hand as they go this way.
And church, as you leave, grab one of these invite cards and remember to invite someone for next weekend.
And let's remind ourselves as we leave to the King who is immortal.
eternal, invisible to the only, wise God be honor and glory forever and ever.
And all God's people said, amen.
Have a great week.
Shine the light of Jesus.
Thanks for listening to today's message.
You know, here at Calvary, we believe a relationship with Jesus changes everything.
And if you've decided to follow Jesus, we'd love for you to text the word believe to 31352.
So you can find out what it means to follow Christ.
And to learn more about Calvary and all of our campuses, you're free to visit calvaryftl.org.